=====PAGE 1=====
1
Text2Earth: Unlocking Text-driven Remote Sensing
Image Generation with a Global-Scale Dataset and
a Foundation Model
Chenyang Liu, Keyan Chen, Rui Zhao, Zhengxia Zou, Senior Member, IEEE,
and Zhenwei Shi∗, Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract—Recently, generative foundation models have sig-
nificantly advanced large-scale text-driven natural image gen-
eration and have become a prominent research trend across
various vertical domains. However, in the remote sensing field,
there is still a lack of research on large-scale text-to-image
(text2image) generation technology. Existing remote sensing
image-text datasets are small in scale and confined to specific
geographic areas and scene types. Besides, existing text2image
methods have struggled to achieve global-scale, multi-resolution
controllable, and unbounded image generation. To address these
challenges, this paper presents two key contributions: the Git-
10M dataset and the Text2Earth foundation model. Git-10M is
a global-scale image-text dataset comprising 10.5 million image-
text pairs, 5 times larger than the previous largest one. The
dataset contains essential resolution information and covers a
wide range of geographic scenes and contains essential geospatial
metadata, significantly surpassing existing datasets in both size
and diversity. Building on Git-10M, we propose Text2Earth,
a 1.3 billion parameter generative foundation model based on
the di ffusion framework to model global-scale remote sensing
scenes. Text2Earth integrates a resolution guidance mechanism,
enabling users to specify image resolutions. A dynamic condition
adaptation strategy is proposed for training and inference to
improve image generation quality. Text2Earth not only excels
in zero-shot text2image generation but also demonstrates robust
generalization and flexibility across multiple tasks, including
unbounded scene construction, image editing, and cross-modal
image generation. This robust capability surpasses previous
models restricted to the basic fixed size and limited scene types.
On the previous text2image benchmark dataset, Text2Earth
outperfoms previous models with a significant improvement of
+26.23 FID and +20.95% Zero-shot Cls-OA metric. Our project
page is https://chen-yang-liu.github.io/Text2Earth/
Index Terms —Remote Sensing, Global-scale, Text-to-Image
Generation, Foundation models, and Multimodality.
The work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation
of China under Grant 62125102, 624B2017, 62471014, U24B20177, and
623B2013, the National Key Research and Development Program of China
under Grant 2022ZD0160401, the Beijing Natural Science Foundation under
Grant JL23005, and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universi-
ties. (Corresponding author: Zhenwei Shi (e-mail: shizhenwei@buaa.edu.cn))
Chenyang Liu, Keyan Chen, Zhengxia Zou and Zhenwei Shi are with
the Department of Aerospace Intelligent Science and Technology, School of
Astronautics, with the State Key Laboratory of Virtual Reality Technology and
Systems, Beihang University, Beijing 100191, China, with the Key Laboratory
of Spacecraft Design Optimization and Dynamic Simulation Technologies,
Ministry of Education, and also with Shanghai Artificial Intelligence Labora-
tory, Shanghai 200232, China.
Chenyang Liu is also with Shen Yuan Honors College of Beihang Univer-
sity, Beijing 100191, China.
Rui Zhao is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
National University of Singapore, Singapore 117583.
I. I ntroduction
Recently, generative foundation models have significantly
advanced large-scale text-driven natural image generation and
have become a prominent research trend across various verti-
cal domains [1]–[3], including medical imaging, autonomous
driving, and virtual reality. These foundation models have
demonstrated impressive image generation capabilities from
large-scale image-text datasets, enabling them to produce
large amounts of high-quality images. However, in the remote
sensing field, there is still a lack of research on the large-scale
text-to-image (text2image) generation technology based on
foundation models [4]–[7]. This research holds considerable
significance and application value, particularly in areas such as
imaging simulation, virtual remote sensing scene construction,
and data augmentation [8]–[10].
Unlike natural images, remote sensing images possess a
unique “God’s-eye” perspective, characterized by wide ge-
ographical coverage, diverse scenes, and multiple resolu-
tions [11]–[15]. These attributes underscore the necessity of
the global-scale, multi-resolution controllable, and unbounded
remote sensing text2image generation techniques.
Despite advancements in previous studies, significant chal-
lenges remain: 1) Dataset Limitations: As illustrated in Fig. 1
and Table I, existing remote sensing image-text datasets are
small-scale and lack sufficient diversity, such as UCM [16] and
RSICD [17]. These datasets are typically confined to specific
geographic areas and scene types. Moreover, these datasets
usually consist of simple image-text pairs without crucial res-
olution information [8], restricting the flexibility of text2image
generation in real-world scenarios that require images with
specified resolutions. 2) Model Limitations: Previous models
have employed techniques like Generative Adversarial Net-
works (GANs) and Transformer to improve generation quality.
However, these models struggle to adequately capture the
complex structured geographical features inherent in global-
scale remote sensing scenes. Meanwhile, they overlook the
resolution-specific characteristics inherent in remote sensing
imagery. This often results in the generation of images with
uncertain resolutions, rather than tailored to user-specified
needs. Moreover, these models are restricted to basic fixed-size
text2image generation, lacking the capability as foundation
models to generalize across multiple text-driven generation
tasks (e.g., unbounded scene construction and image editing),
making them less versatile for real-world applications.
arXiv:2501.00895v2  [cs.CV]  20 Mar 2025
=====PAGE 2=====
2
RS5M-RS3
UCM RSICD NWPU-cap
Fig. 1. Comparison between previous remote sensing text2image datasets and
our Git-10M dataset.
In this paper, we aim to advance remote sensing text2image
generation towards global-scale scene generation, multi-
resolution controllability, and unbounded large-size image syn-
thesis through two primary contributions: a large-scale dataset
and a powerful generative foundation model. To overcome
the limitations of existing datasets, we developed the Git-
10M dataset, a Global-scale image-text dataset comprising
10.5 million image-text pairs, which is 5 times larger than
the previous largest dataset. Surpassing previous datasets, Git-
10M encompasses a diverse range of global geographical
scenes, including cities, forests, and mountains, while also
containing rich metadata such as image resolution and geo-
graphic location. This comprehensive diversity empowers the
model trained on Git-10M to generate realistic and global-
scale images across various geographic scenes.
Building upon the Git-10M dataset, we propose Text2Earth,
a 1.3 billion parameter generative foundation model based
on the di ffusion framework [18], [19] to model global-scale
remote sensing scenes. To e fficiently generate large-scale re-
mote sensing images, Text2Earth employs a V AE to compress
images into a compact feature space. By performing the
diffusion process in this feature space instead of conventional
pixel space, Text2Earth significantly reduces computational
overhead while preserving the image fidelity, making it well-
suited for unbounded large-scale scene generation. To facilitate
textual understanding, Text2Earth employ the OpenCLIP ViT-
H encoder [20] for robust and nuanced text representation,
which is integrated into the denoising UNet network [21] via
the cross-attention mechanism. We propose a resolution guid-
ance mechanism for Text2Earth, addressing previous models’
limitations in resolution control. Resolution-specific informa-
tion is encoded and incorporated into each denoising step of
the diffusion process, guiding noise prediction for resolution-
controlled image generation. Furthermore, a dynamic condi-
tion adaptation strategy is proposed to integrate conditional
inputs with null conditions to guide the denoising direction
during training and inference. This strategy enhances genera-
tion quality while enabling the model to maintain performance
in the absence of specific textual or resolution inputs.
The structure of the Text2Earth model equipped with 1.3 bil-
lion parameters. It consists of some core components: a Vari-
ational Autoencoder (V AE) for e fficient image compression
TABLE I
Comparison between previous remote sensing text 2image datasets and our
Git-10M dataset.
Method Global-Scale Resolution Number of Images
UCM [16] ✗ ✗ 2.1k
RSICD [17] ✗ ✗ 10.9k
NWPU-cap [22] ✗ ✗ 31.5k
RS5M-RS3 [23] – ✗ 2M
Git-10M ✔ ✔ 10M
and reconstruction, an OpenCLIP ViT-H text encoder [20] for
converting text into high-dimensional semantic embeddings,
a resolution embedding module, and a U-Net with the cross-
attention mechanism for precise noise prediction.
Different from previous methods limited to generating
fixed-size images with constrained scene diversity, Text2Earth
not only supports resolution-controllable zero-shot text2image
generation but also demonstrates robust generalization and
flexibility across multiple tasks, including: 1) Zero-shot
Text2Image Generation: Text2Earth can generate specific im-
age content based on user-free text input without requir-
ing scene-specific fine-tuning. Additionally, on the previous
remote sensing text2image benchmark dataset, Text2Earth
surpasses prior models with a significant improvement of
+26.23 FID and +20.95% Zero-Shot Cls-OA metric. 2) Un-
bounded Remote Sensing Scene Construction: Text2Earth
enables the unbounded generation of remote sensing scenes
with a consistent spatial resolution through iterative user’s
text input, overcoming the fixed-size constraints of previous
models. This functionality is ideal for creating expansive
geographic visualizations. 3) Remote Sensing Image Editing:
Text2Earth supports advanced editing tasks such as inpainting,
cloud removal, and localized content modification, making
it a versatile tool for interactive image editing. 4) Cross-
modal Image Generation: Text2Earth has learned extensive
knowledge and universal image generation capabilities from
large-scale remote sensing data. These capabilities allow it
for efficient transfer to diverse cross-modal image generation
tasks, such as text-driven multi-modal image generation (e.g.,
NIR or SAR images), and image-to-image translation.
Our contributions can be summarized as follows:
• Global-Scale Dataset : We present Git-10M, the largest-
scale remote sensing image-text dataset, featuring exten-
sive geographical diversity and metadata. It overcomes the
limitations of previous small-scale datasets and provides
a robust foundation for training generative models.
• Generative Foundation Model: We develop Text2Earth,
a powerful di ffusion-based generative foundation model
that generates diverse global geographic scenes and multi-
resolution images, ranging from close-up details to wide-
area coverage, guided by user-provided textual input.
• Generalization and Flexibility: Text2Earth excels across
various tasks, including zero-shot text2image genera-
tion, unbounded scene construction, image editing, and
cross-modal image generation. This versatility represents
=====PAGE 3=====
3
a significant advancement, surpassing previous models
restricted to fixed sizes and specific scenes. Besides,
On the previous text2image benchmark RSICD dataset,
Text2Earth surpasses the previous models with a signifi-
cant improvement of +26.23 FID and +20.95% Zero-shot
Cls-OA metric.
II. R elated Work
In this section, we will review the recent advancements in
generative foundation models and remote sensing text2image
generation, highlighting the limitations of existing research.
A. Generative Foundation Models in the Computer Vision
Generative foundation models (GFMs) have become in-
creasingly influential in the field of computer vision, demon-
strating remarkable advancements in the generation and trans-
formation of visual data [3], [24]–[27]. These models, which
are based on large-scale pre-training, are designed to capture
a broad range of visual concepts and structures from vast
datasets, making them versatile for numerous downstream
tasks. Current generative models mainly focus on text2image
generation. These models are typically built on three architec-
tures: Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), Autoregres-
sive Transformers, and Di ffusion models.
1) GANs-Based Models: GANs, introduced by Goodfel-
low et al. in 2014 [28], are a classic generative model for
text2image generation. In a typical GAN-based text2image
framework, a generator learns to synthesize images from
textual input, while a discriminator evaluates the realism of
these images [29]–[34]. The adversarial interplay between
these components fosters iterative refinement of generated
images.
Reed et al. first used a conditional GAN (cGAN) struc-
ture [35] to explore GAN-based text2image generation. Stack-
GAN [36] generates high-resolution images in two stages:
first by producing a low-resolution image from text, and then
refining it to a high-resolution version. AttnGAN [37] intro-
duced an attention mechanism that allowed the model to align
specific words in the text with corresponding image regions.
MirrorGAN [38] further emphasized bidirectional mapping
between text and images to preserve textual coherence. In
recent research, GigaGAN [39] expands the model parameters
and trains on large-scale data. It incorporates a multi-resolution
hierarchical architecture and can generate ultra-high-resolution
images at a faster speed. UFOGen [40] combines GANs
and di ffusion models. It adopts a UNet architecture of the
Stable Diffusion [19], enabling it to leverage pre-trained Stable
Diffusion for initialization, thereby significantly simplifying
the training process. Despite these successes, GAN-based
models are often hindered by challenges such as mode collapse
and training instability, which can limit their e ffectiveness in
generating diverse and high-quality images [41], [42].
2) Autoregressive Models: Autoregressive models treat im-
age generation as a sequential process. They typically leverage
the large-scale Transformer architecture to generate images
by sequentially predicting pixels or regions conditioned on
preceding outputs and textual inputs [43]–[48]. This approach
has demonstrated strong capabilities in text2image generation
by modeling the joint distribution of text and image tokens in
a shared latent space.
OpenAI’s DALL-E [43] laid the foundation for autoregres-
sive text2image models with a two-stage training pipeline. It
first trains a dV AE model to discretize the image, and then
performs autoregressive modeling on the text and image to-
kens. Building on this, CogView [44] addresses the instability
problem in large-scale autoregressive text2image training by
proposing Precision Bottleneck Relaxation and Sandwich Lay-
ernorm. Different from decoder-only architecture, Parti [45] in-
troduced an encoder-decoder architecture, treating text2image
generation as a translation task, where the encoder processes
text while the decoder predicts image tokens. Recent models
emphasize e fficiency and scalability. V AR [49] proposes a
coarse-to-fine “next-scale prediction” mechanism, diverging
from traditional “next-token prediction”. It achieved superior
performance in terms of image quality, inference speed, and
scalability compared to di ffusion models. ZipAR [50] acceler-
ates autoregressive generation through a training-free parallel
decoding framework, exploiting the spatial locality inherent in
image data to enhance generation e fficiency.
3) Di ffusion-Based Models: Diffusion models have gained
prominence as a leading approach in generative modeling [18],
[51]. They operate by simulating a forward process that
progressively corrupts data with noise and a reverse process
that incrementally removes the noise, e ffectively reconstruct-
ing the original data [52]. This framework o ffers advantages
such as training stability and the capacity to produce diverse,
photorealistic images [24].
GLIDE [53] is a pioneering work comparing CLIP guid-
ance and classifier-free guidance in text-conditional di ffusion.
DALL-E 2 [54] employs a two-stage approach that generates
CLIP embeddings from textual descriptions and decodes these
embeddings into detailed images. Stable Di ffusion [19] in-
troduces latent space di ffusion for generating high-resolution
images with reduced computational cost. Based on priors
obtained from a large amount of data, it has become one
of the most widely used generative foundation models and
has enabled applications in domains such as artistic paint-
ing [55], [56], text-guided image editing [57], [58], and text-
to-video [59]–[61]. Recent innovations emphasize enhanced
control and interactivity. ControlNet [62] enables spatial and
structural control during image generation by integrating addi-
tional conditioning inputs. DragDi ffusion [63] o ffers a point-
based interface for precise spatial control, leveraging the power
of pretrained di ffusion models and latent space optimization
at a single and carefully selected time step.
B. Remote Sensing Text2Image Generation
Remote sensing text2image generation task was first ex-
plored by Bejiga et al. [64], who proposed a conditional
GAN-based method to generate retro-images from ancient
text descriptions of geographical landscapes. In subsequent
works [65], [66], they enhanced text encoding by using a
doc2vec encoder [67] to extract different levels of text informa-
tion, such as object types, attributes, and spatial relationships.
=====PAGE 4=====
4
However, the generated images su ffered from low resolution
and insufficient detail, limiting their applicability. To address
these issues, Zhao et al. [68] proposed StrucGAN, which gen-
erates high-resolution images through a multi-stage process.
StrucGAN incorporates an unsupervised segmentation module
within the discriminator to extract structural information from
images, ensuring the synthesis of structurally coherent outputs.
BTD-sGAN [69] introduced an innovative approach by replac-
ing traditional Gaussian noise with Perlin noise and using
segmentation masks and textual descriptions as conditional
inputs to improve the quality of generated images.
Moving beyond GAN-based approaches, Xu et al. [8] devel-
oped Txt2Img-MHN, which employs a modern Hopfield net-
work [70] to generate visual embeddings in an autoregressive
manner. Their method leverages Vector Quantized Variational
AutoEncoder (VQV AE) [71] and Vector Quantized Genera-
tive Adversarial Network (VQGAN) [30] to discretize image
embeddings. Additionally, Txt2Img-MHN implements coarse-
to-fine hierarchical prototype learning for text and image
embeddings via Hopfield Lookup, extracting representative
prototypes from text-image embeddings.
Recent advancements have explored diffusion-based models
for remote sensing text2image generation. Building on the
Stable Di ffusion model, Di ffusionSat [72] introduced a 3D
ControlNet to extend the model’s capability for more con-
ditional generation tasks. Similarly, CRS-Di ff [73] also focus
on controllable image generation. RSDi ff [74] adopts a two-
stage text2image diffusion framework inspired by Imagen [75],
where an initial low-resolution di ffusion model generates
preliminary images from textual inputs, followed by a super-
resolution model that refines the images to achieve higher
levels of detail.
Despite the progress achieved by these models, significant
challenges remain. Current approaches struggle to fully cap-
ture the complex and structured geographic features character-
istic of global-scale remote sensing scenes, primarily due to
the limited availability of diverse training datasets. This con-
straint limits their ability to generalize as foundation models
for various text-driven generative tasks, such as unbounded
scene construction and image editing.
III. G lobal-scale image-text Dataset
The Git-10M dataset is a global-scale remote sensing image-
text pair dataset, consisting of 10.5 million image-text pairs
with geographical locations and resolution information. This
section will detail the construction process of the dataset and
conduct a systematic analysis.
A. Image Collection and Preprocessing
As shown in Fig. 2, the images in the Git-10M dataset are
sourced from multiple publicly available datasets and man-
ually collected global remote sensing imagery from Google
Earth. The public datasets, including Million-AID [76],
GeoPile [77], SSL4EO-S12 [78], SkyScript [79], DIOR [80],
and RSICB [81], provide high-quality remote sensing images.
These datasets primarily focus on scene classification tasks.
During the collection process, we retained the scene category
Git-10M
Fig. 2. The diverse image composition of the Git-10M dataset. Most images
were collected from Google Earth, allowing public sharing and redistribution.
labels for each image to enable more precise semantic de-
scriptions during the subsequent text annotation phase. These
diverse data sources significantly enhance the richness of the
Git-10M dataset.
To expand the dataset’s scale and geographic coverage,
we further collected remote sensing images with various
resolutions and scene types from Google Earth. This collec-
tion process comprised two key steps: 1) randomly selecting
regions worldwide to ensure broad sample distribution, and
2) manually selecting specific areas to ensure comprehensive
coverage of typical geographic features such as urban areas,
forests, mountains, and deserts. Throughout this process, we
preserved metadata for each image, including geographic
location and resolution, which provided essential support for
subsequent analysis and text annotation.
After completing the image collection, we conducted strin-
gent filtering and processing. First, duplicate or redundant
ocean scenes were removed through manual screening to main-
tain diversity in geographic distribution. Additionally, a subset
of images exhibited issues with visual quality, such as noise
and artifact, which could negatively impact the training of im-
age generation models. To address this, an image enhancement
model was trained on a private high-quality remote sensing
dataset and applied to all collected images, significantly im-
proving the overall image quality of the dataset. During the
training of the model, we simulate various image degradation
processes, such as blurring, noise addition, and compression,
to create paired low-quality and high-quality images. We train
the model using these paired images to learn the mapping
from degraded images to their high-quality counterparts. This
enhancement process helps to standardize image quality across
the Git-10M dataset, making it more suitable for high-quality
generative modeling. We will also release the enhancement
model at https://github.com/Chen-Yang-Liu/Text2Earth
Through the above multi-stage collection and processing
workflow, Git-10M not only achieves a breakthrough in scale,
but also shows remarkable improvements in quality, diversity,
and geographical coverage.
B. Text Annotation
Given the scale of over 10 million images, manual an-
notation of textual descriptions was infeasible. To address
this challenge, we designed a automated annotation pipeline
capable of efficiently generating high-quality text descriptions
=====PAGE 5=====
5
Fig. 3. The diverse geospatial distribution of the Git-10M dataset. The yellow pixels represent the geographic locations where remote sensing images in
Git-10M were sampled. The distribution shows that our dataset covers multiple continents and geographical regions, covering various typical scenes such as
urban areas, forests, mountains, and deserts.
that accurately reflect image content. This pipeline leverages
the GPT-4o [82] API from OpenAI, combined with prompt
optimization and annotation review strategies, to ensure both
efficiency and accuracy.
For images with metadata such as geographic location,
resolution, or scene category labels, these attributes were
incorporated as additional context in the prompts provided
to the GPT-4o model, significantly improving the relevance
of the generated text. For example, when processing an image
labeled as an airport scene, the scene information “airport” was
included in the prompt to guide the model toward generating a
more semantically accurate description. To enhance the quality
of text generation, the input prompts for GPT-4o underwent
multiple iterative refinements. Compared to simple straight-
forward instructions like “Describe the image content,” we
developed more sophisticated prompts emphasizing semantic
details such as scene context and geographic features.
To ensure the reliability of the large-scale annotation,
we established a review mechanism combining automated
auditing and manual sampling inspections. The automated
auditing process addressed potential issues arising from GPT-
4o timeout responses or network errors, which could result in
incorrect textual outputs due to unsuccessful image uploads.
Additionally, periodic manual sampling was conducted to eval-
uate the accuracy of the generated text. Errors identified during
the review process were fed back into the annotation pipeline,
prompting prompt design refinements and reprocessing of
erroneous samples.
This automated annotation pipeline successfully generated
high-quality, semantically rich, and contextually accurate text
descriptions for every image in the dataset. This provided
critical support for the construction of Git-10M as a robust,
high-quality resource for the remote sensing community.
Git-10M
Fig. 4. The distribution of images with varying resolutions in the Git-10M
dataset. The dataset encompasses images ranging from high resolution (e.g.,
0.5m/pixel) to low resolution (e.g., 128m /pixel).
C. Dataset Analysis
To comprehensively evaluate the quality and diversity of the
Git-10M dataset, we conducted a systematic analysis of both
the image and corresponding textual annotations from multiple
dimensions. The analysis includes the following aspects:
1) Geographical Coverage: We performed a statistical anal-
ysis of the geographical distribution of images in the
Git-10M dataset. As shown in Fig. 3, Git-10M spans
multiple continents and geographical regions, covering
various typical scenes such as urban areas, forests, moun-
tains, deserts, and more. The wide geographical coverage
ensures that the dataset can support the generation of
real-world remote sensing images across different regions,
natural features, and diverse scenes. Besides, as stated in
the Section III-A, some images of our Git-10M dataset are
collected from several public scene classification datasets,
which provide explicit scene labels. The integration of
these datasets ensures that Git-10M covers a wide variety
of well-defined remote sensing scene types. For example,
the AID dataset contains 30 typical scene categories,
=====PAGE 6=====
6
Score
Frequency Before After
Before
After
Before After
Score
Frequency Before After
Fig. 5. The quality score of images before and after enhancement processing
for our Git-10M dataset. The results demonstrate a significant improvement
after enhancement. An example is shown on the right.
while the RSICB dataset contains 45 categories.
2) Resolution Distribution : Fig. 4 illustrates the distribu-
tion of images with varying resolutions in the Git-10M
dataset. The dataset encompasses images ranging from
high resolution (e.g., 0.5m /pixel) to low resolution (e.g.,
128m/pixel). High-resolution images capture detailed fea-
tures, making them suitable for tasks that require fine-
grained information. On the other hand, low-resolution
images provide a broader coverage of larger areas. The
multi-resolution nature of the Git-10M dataset o ffers
essential support for training models that can generate
images at specific scales.
3) Image Evaluation : To assess the e ffectiveness of our
image enhancement model, we employed a widely used
aesthetic model1 to evaluate the quality of images before
and after image enhancement processing. As shown in
Fig. 5, the results demonstrate a significant image qual-
ity improvement after enhancement. High-quality images
enhance the dataset’s visual appeal and provide reliable
training data for the generative models.
4) Text Analysis: We conducted a word cloud analysis on
the texts in the Git-10M dataset, with the results pre-
sented in Fig. 6. The word cloud highlights the richness
and diversity of the textual descriptions, indicating the
comprehensive range of concepts and objects covered.
Besides, we also examined the distribution of text lengths
(see Fig. 6). Each image is associated with a text of
approximately 52 words on average, totaling more than
10.5 million text samples and over 5.5 billion words
across the entire dataset.
In summary, the Git-10M dataset exhibits significant advan-
tages in terms of geographical diversity, resolution distribution,
image quality, and the richness of textual descriptions. These
characteristics make it an invaluable resource for advancing
remote sensing image generation research.
IV . Text2Earth Foundation Model
Building on the proposed Git-10M dataset, we developed
Text2Earth, a 1.3 billion parameter generative foundation
model tailored for large-scale remote sensing text2image gen-
eration. This section details the model structure and a dynamic
condition adaptation strategy for training and inference.
1https://github.com/christophschuhmann/improved-aesthetic-predictor
Length
Frequency
Fig. 6. Text Analysis. Top: the word cloud of the texts in the Git-10M dataset.
Bottom: the distribution of text lengths in the Git-10M dataset shows that each
textual description averages approximately 52 words, with the entire dataset
comprising over 10.5 million text samples and more than 5.5 billion words.
A. Structure of Text2Earth Model
The design of an efficient and powerful foundation model is
critical to addressing the demands of global-scale remote sens-
ing image generation. Among various generative architectures,
diffusion models stand out for their exceptional capability to
model complex data distributions. Leveraging this, we propose
Text2Earth, a di ffusion-based generative foundation model.
As illustrated in Fig. 7, the structure of Text2Earth is built
upon three core components: image compression encoding,
conditional embedding mechanism, and di ffusion modelling.
The Variational Autoencoder (V AE) is employed for e ffi-
cient image compression and reconstruction. A U-Net with
a cross-attention mechanism is used for multi-step denoising.
OpenCLIP ViT-H text encoder [20] converts text into high-
dimensional semantic embeddings. A resolution embedding
module aims to encode image resolution as an implicit embed-
ding. The text embeddings and resolution embedding will be
incorporated into each denoising step of the di ffusion process.
Our Text2Earth can generate entirely new remote sensing
images consistent with the provided text and resolution or
perform local editing on existing images while preserving the
original structure. Users can input a white mask to specify the
image region for generating visual content, which can either
encompass the entire image or focus on a specific area.
1) Image Compression Encoding : The V AE is employed
to compress high-resolution remote sensing image pixels into
a compact implicit space while preserving perceptual consis-
tency between the implicit and pixel spaces [19]. This signif-
=====PAGE 7=====
7
Denoising Unet
??
Resolution
Text 
EncoderText
D
...
Timestep
+
C
Q\K\V
???????????????
VAE
Encoder
E
E
Diffusion Process
??−???
× ?
??−???
??
+
Element-wise Add
C
C Concatation
Fig. 7. The structure of the Text2Earth model equipped with 1.3 billion
parameters. Text2Earth can generate entirely new images consistent with the
provided text or perform local editing on existing images while preserving the
original structure. Users can input a white mask to specify the image region
for generating visual content, which can either encompass the entire image
or focus on a specific area.
icantly enhances computational e fficiency for the subsequent
diffusion modelling, which is crucial for unbounded and large-
scale remote sensing image generation.
Given an input image x ∈ RH×W×C, the encoder E
compresses it into an implicit representation z ∈ Rh×w×c,
where h, w<H, W, thus reducing the dimensionality of the
implicit space compared to the original image pixel space.
The compression encoder involves multi-scale feature ex-
traction with progressive downsampling, ensuring a compact
yet information-rich implicit representation. The decoder D
subsequently reconstructs the image ˆ x from the implicit rep-
resentation z as follows:
ˆx =D(z), where ˆ x≈ x.
2) Diffusion Modeling : The di ffusion modeling is at the
heart of Text2Earth, enabling high-quality and diverse image
generation. The forward di ffusion process gradually corrupts
the implicit representation z0 by adding Gaussian noise at the
timestep t:
zt =√ ¯αtz0 +
p
1− ¯αtϵ,
where ϵ ∼N (0, 1) represents Gaussian noise, and ¯ αt is the
cumulative scaling factor, which is defined as the product of
individual scaling factors αi up to timestep t. Mathematically,
it is defined as:
¯αt =
tY
i=1
αi.
The reverse di ffusion process aims to denoise the implicit
representation zt and reconstruct z0. The U-Net denoising
network ϵθ is trained to predict the noise component ϵ using
the following loss function:
min
θ
LLDM = Ez0,ϵ∼N(0,1),t
h
∥ϵ−ϵθ(zt, t,τ,ρ )∥2i
,
whereτ represents the semantic embedding derived from text,
and ρ denotes the resolution embedding. The well-trained
diffusion models generate samples by progressive denoising
from Gaussian noise.
By performing diffusion modeling in the V AE’s compressed
feature space, Text2Earth achieves a substantial reduction in
computational requirements while preserving image fidelity.
This makes Text2Earth suitable for large-scale and unbounded
remote sensing image generation.
3) Conditional Embedding Mechanism : The conditional
embedding mechanism in Text2Earth integrates textual seman-
tics and resolution control at each step of the reverse di ffusion
process. This will guide noise prediction and ensures that the
generated image aligns with both the textual description and
the specified resolution, achieving precise and customizable
image generation.
Text2Earth utilizes the OpenCLIP ViT-H text encoder
T [20] to transform the input text It to a high-dimensional
semantic embedding τ:
τ =T (It), τ ∈ RL×d.
where L is the token length and of d is the embedding
dimension. To effectively incorporate semantic information to
guide visual content generation, Text2Earth employs a cross-
attention mechanism, injecting the text embedding τ into the
intermediate layers of the denoising U-Net. The cross-attention
mechanism is defined as:
Attention(Q, K, V) = Softmax
 QK⊤
√dk
!
V,
where Q is derived from the noisy implicit representation zt,
and K and V come from the text embedding τ. The scaling
factor dk ensures numerical stability. This mechanism enables
the model to dynamically focus on critical semantic features in
the text, ensuring the generated image is semantically faithful
to the textual description.
To address the limitations of previous models in resolution
control, Text2Earth introduces a resolution guidance mecha-
nism that allows for flexible control over image resolution.
Specifically, resolution information Is is encoded into the
implicit space using a projection layer, producing a resolution
embeddingρ.ρ is then combined with the timestep embedding
gθ(t) as follows:
cst =ρ + gθ(t) = fθ(Is) + gθ(t)
This embedding is then input to the U-Net, which adjusts the
generated image resolution at each di ffusion step.
Furthermore, to extend the capabilities of Text2Earth to text-
driven image editing tasks, a conditional masked image en-
coding mechanism is introduced. Specifically, given an input-
masked image xm∈ RH×W×C, the V AE encoder E generates
the implicit representation zm ∈ Rh×w×cm. The zm is then
concatenated with the implicit variable zt∈ Rh×w×c obtained
from the di ffusion process along the channel dimension to
form a joint conditional representation:
zcond = [zm, zt]∈ Rh×w×(c+cm).
The zcond is then passed into the denoising U-Net for noise
prediction. This mechanism enables Text2Earth to not only
generate entirely new remote sensing images consistent with
the provided text and resolution but also perform local editing
on existing images while preserving the original structure.
For example, when certain regions of an image are masked,
the model can generate coherent and natural restorations or
=====PAGE 8=====
8
Algorithm 1 Training with Dynamic Conditioning
1: repeat
2: x0∼ q(x0) (Sample an image from the data distribution)
3: z0 =E(x0) (V AE encoding)
4: t∼ Uniform({1,..., T}) (Random time step)
5: ϵ∼N (0, I) (Sample Gaussian noise)
6: ctext∼ Bernoulli(p1) (Randomly drop text: 0 or 1)
7: cres∼ Bernoulli(p2) (Randomly drop resolution: 0 or 1)
8: It← the corresponding text of x0
9: Is← the corresponding resolution of x0
10: if ctext ==1 then
11: τ←τ∅ (unknown text embedding)
12: else
13: τ←T (It) (text embedding)
14: end if
15: if cres ==0 then
16: ρ←ρ∅ (unknown resolution embedding)
17: else
18: ρ← fθ(Is) (resolution embedding)
19: end if
20: Take gradient descent step on
∇θ
ϵ− ϵθ(√ ¯αtz0 +√1− ¯αtϵ, t,τ,ρ )

2
21: until converged
modifications consistent with the input textual instructions.
This capability broadens its applicability to scenarios requiring
fine-grained image editing.
B. Dynamic Condition Adaptation Strategy
To enhance the robustness and adaptability of the
Text2Earth model, we propose a Dynamic Condition Adap-
tation (DCA) strategy. This strategy enables consistent and
high-quality image generation. Besides, it can improve the
model’s adaptability when conditional inputs, such as text or
resolution, are missing. The DCA approach involves two key
phases: training with dynamic conditioning and sampling with
scalable condition guidance.
1) Training with Dynamic Conditioning : During training,
text and resolution conditions are randomly dropped with
predefined probabilities. This strategy encourages the model
to learn denoising dynamics and feature representations that
are robust to incomplete or missing conditions, simulating real-
world scenarios where inputs might be absent or unreliable.
The training procedure incorporates both conditional and
unconditional learning. When text and resolution conditions
are present, the model learns to generate images that align
closely with these inputs. When both conditions are dropped,
the model learns to generate images based purely on noise,
akin to traditional unconditional generation. This dynamic
conditioning process ensures that Text2Earth can handle a
wide range of input scenarios, enhancing its flexibility and
robustness. The training steps are detailed in Algorithm 1.
2) Sampling with Scalable Condition Guidance : During
sampling, the DCA strategy leverages a mixture of conditional
input and a null condition to refine the image generation pro-
cess. This combination guides the denoising process to align
generated images closely with the desired conditions while
maintaining diversity and quality. Inspired by the classifier-free
guidance technique [83], the Text2Earth model predicts two
versions of the noise at each denoising step: one conditioned
Algorithm 2 Sampling with Scalable Condition Guidance
1: xT∼N (0, I) (Start with Gaussian noise)
2: It← the input text
3: Is← the input resolution
4: τ←T (It) (text embedding)
5: ρ← fθ(Is) (resolution embedding)
6: for t = T,..., 1 do
7: z∼N (0, I) if t> 1, else z = 0
8: ϵg = (1 +ω)ϵθ(zt, t,τ,ρ )−ωϵθ(zt, t,τ ∅,ρ ∅)
9: zt−1 = 1√αt

zt− 1−αt√1− ¯αt
ϵθ(zt, t,τ )

+σtz
10: end for
11: x0←D (z0) (V AE decoding)
12: return x0 (Final generated image)
on the input and one without conditioning. The final predicted
noise ϵg is computed as a weighted combination of these two
predictions:
ϵg = (1 +ω)ϵθ(zt, t,τ,ρ )−ωϵθ(zt, t,τ ∅,ρ ∅)
where ω is a guidance scale factor that controls the model’s
reliance on the provided conditions. The sampling process is
formalized in Algorithm 2.
In summary, the DCA strategy equips Text2Earth with the
ability to handle various input scenarios e ffectively, such as
incomplete input conditions. Besides, this strategy facilitates
the model to generate images that closely align with the input
conditions while maintaining diversity and quality.
V . Experiment
A. Dataset
1) Git-10M Dataset: The Git-10M dataset comprises 10
million global remote sensing image-text pairs, spanning di-
verse geographical locations and environmental conditions.
This extensive dataset o ffers a robust foundation for training
models capable of generating high-quality, diverse remote
sensing imagery.
2) RSICD Dataset: RSICD dataset is a widely used bench-
mark dataset for remote sensing text2image generation. It
contains 10,921 remote sensing images and corresponding text
annotations. The dataset contains 30 types of common ground
scenes, and the spatial resolution of images is not unique.
This dataset was employed to evaluate our model’s adaptation
to the small specific scene dataset. To further explore the
multimodal image generation, we extend the RSICD dataset
to a multimodal dataset. RGB images in the RSICD dataset
were transformed into various modalities as follows:
• Panchromatic (PAN) Images: Converted from original
RGB images using grayscale transformation to simulate
monochromatic imagery.
• Near-Infrared (NIR) Images: Generated using pretrained
models to simulate spectral information beyond the visi-
ble spectrum.
• Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) Images: Produced using
a pretrained model based on the Pix2Pix framework,
providing radar-like image representations.
• Low-Resolution Images: Obtained by downsampling
RGB images, simulating scenarios with constrained spa-
tial resolutions.
=====PAGE 9=====
9
• Foggy Images: Synthesized by adding fog to the original
image using a classic fog simulation algorithm.
B. Implementation Details
Distributed training was conducted on a machine equipped
with 8 NVIDIA A100 GPUs to manage the computational
demands of training large-scale generative models. The train-
ing setup utilized the AdamW optimizer with a learning rate
of 0.0001, and a batch size of 1024 was chosen to maximize
hardware utilization and ensure e fficient gradient updates. The
generated image size is set to 256 × 256 pixels.
A progressive training strategy was used to improve the
model’s ability to generate diverse and high-quality remote
sensing images. The model was initially trained on the
complete Git-10M dataset, leveraging its extensive diversity
to capture a wide range of spatial and spectral geographic
features. The model was subsequently fine-tuned on a high-
quality subset of the dataset, comprising samples with a score
greater than 4.8 in Fig. 5. This refinement phase improved
the fidelity and detail of the generated images. This two-stage
approach allowed the model to learn from a broad dataset and
refine its generation capabilities on a higher-quality sub-set.
We developed two specialized versions of the Text2Earth
model to address distinct remote sensing tasks. Text2Earth t
was optimized for generating remote sensing images from
text and resolution. Text2Earthe was tailored for image editing
tasks. This flexibility allows Text2Earth to cater to a wide
range of practical remote sensing applications.
C. Evaluation Metrics
The Fr´echet Inception Distance (FID) metric is widely used
to evaluate generative models by measuring the perceptual
similarity between generated and real images. It compares the
distributions of features extracted from both sets in a shared
feature space. A lower FID score indicates better quality and
diversity of the generated images. The FID score is computed
as follows:
FID =∥µr−µg∥2
2 + Tr(Σr + Σg− 2(ΣrΣg)1/2)
where µr and Σr denote the mean and covariance of features
extracted from the real image distribution. µg and Σg are the
mean and covariance of features extracted from the generated
image distribution, respectively. Tr denotes the trace of a
matrix. The features for FID calculation are extracted from a
pre-trained Inception-v3 network [84], ensuring a perceptually
relevant image representation.
Following previous studies [8], [73], we also employ the
Zero-Shot classification Overall Accuracy (Cls-OA) metric to
evaluate the semantic alignment between generated images and
their textual descriptions. Specifically, a classification model
(i.e., ResNet-18) is trained on generated images using text
descriptions from the test set. This model is then used for zero-
shot classification on the real test set without prior exposure
to them during training. The OA metric thus measures the
semantic coherence and relevance of the generated images to
the textual prompts.
TABLE II
Comparisons between our Text2Earth model and previous text 2image
methods on the RSICD dataset.
Method FID↓ Zero-Shot
Cls-OA↑ CLIP Score↑
Attn-GAN [37] 95.81 32.56% 20.19
DAE-GAN [85] 93.15 29.74% 19.69
DF-GAN [29] 109.41 51.99% 19.76
Lafite [31] 74.11 49.37% 22.52
DALL-E [43] 191.93 28.59% 20.13
Txt2Img-MHNvqvae [8] 175.36 41.46% 21.35
Txt2Img-MHNvqgan [8] 102.44 65.72% 20.27
RSDiff [74] 66.49 – –
CRS-Diff [73] 50.72 69.31% 20.33
Text2Earth (Ours) 24.49 90.26% 25.62
Furthermore, to measure the semantic similarity between
text and generated images, we also used the CLIP score, which
is calculated as follows:
CLIP Score = 1
N
NX
i=1
cos

Eimage(Ii), Etext(Ti)

× 100
where Ii denotes the i-th generated image, Ti denotes the
corresponding input text, Eimage and Etext represent the image
encoder and text encoder of a pretrained CLIP model, respec-
tively, and cos(·) denotes the cosine similarity between the two
embedding vectors. The final CLIP score is the average cosine
similarity across all N text-image pairs, reflecting the overall
semantic alignment quality.
D. Zero-Shot Text2Image Generation
Different from previous methods that are limited to gen-
erating images for specific scenes, Text2Earth is trained on
our large-scale dataset, endowing it with robust capabilities
for zero-shot text2image generation across a wide range of
geographical and environmental features. It can generate spe-
cific image content based on user-free text input, without
scene-specific fine-tuning or retraining. As shown in Fig. 8,
Text2Earth can generate a variety of scenes, including diverse
geographical features such as mountains, rivers, urban areas,
forests, and farmland. Additionally, Text2Earth is capable of
generating remote sensing images at various resolutions based
on user specifications. For example, as shown in Fig. 9, it can
generate high-resolution images of urban landscapes with de-
tailed buildings or low-resolution images depicting expansive
forest covers. This versatility demonstrates the model’s ability
to adapt to varying input conditions and user requirements.
Text2Earth also demonstrates remarkable robustness in gen-
erating realistic images, even in cases where key input condi-
tions—such as text or resolution—are missing. For instance,
the model can generate forest images at various scales when
provided with text like “There is a dense forest” without
a specified resolution. Besides, when only the resolution is
provided without specific textual descriptions, the model can
generate resolution-specific images with diverse scenes such
=====PAGE 10=====
10
The river winds 
through the 
yellow desert
Two tennis 
courts are semi-
surrounded by 
several green 
trees
Several green 
circular 
farmlands are 
neatly arranged 
on the ground
There is a red 
building on the 
meadow
There are some 
buildings with 
white walls on a 
commercial area
The beach with 
khaki sand and 
the color of the 
seawater is dark 
blue
There are yellow 
desert with a 
line of green 
plants
A dense 
commercial area 
has lots of 
varied buildings
There are houses 
by the beach
There are many 
buildings on a 
commercial area
At the edge of 
the desert you 
can see a lake 
and the green 
mountains 
nourished by the 
lake 
A curved road 
passes through 
the dense forest
The forest has a 
lot of dense 
yellow trees and 
some green 
trees mixed 
with yellow 
trees
There are many 
houses on both 
sides of the 
highway
There are a few 
bunkers and a 
few paths on 
the large green 
lawn on the golf 
course and 
many trees
The industrial 
area has lots of 
neatly arranged 
blue workshops
An intersection 
with sparse 
traffic located in 
a residential 
area
The nearly 
circular island is 
surrounded by 
blue sea water, 
there are 
mountains with 
vegetation on 
the island
Many trees are 
around the lake
The meadow is 
dense but 
uneven
The mountains 
are winding and 
undulating
There are many 
white rocks and 
brown earth on 
the mountain
The parking lot 
is full of cars 
next to some 
trees
There are many 
rectangular 
farmlands of 
different colors
The green river 
with a winding 
bank goes 
through the 
mountainous 
area covered 
with dense 
vegetation
The roundabout 
is surrounded by 
grass
Countless ice 
cubes of various 
sizes are 
connected into a 
loose, Large 
piece floating on 
the blue sea
The snowberg is 
partly covered 
with glaciers 
and the 
snowberg consist 
of lots of ridges 
and valleys
There are much 
snow and some 
green land on 
the snowberg
A sparse 
residential area 
with several 
buildings on a 
green meadow
There are some 
storage tanks of 
different sizes 
beside a green 
meadow
Many 
rectangular-
shaped green 
and tan mixed 
rectangular 
farmlands of 
different sizes
There are two 
winding paths 
in this wetland, 
and the water is 
dark green
There are many 
buildings 
arranged neatly 
in the mobile 
home park
There are some 
roads go 
through the 
meadow
There are green 
forests and 
meadows 
around the lake
There are some 
trees and roads 
by the beach
Deep blue water 
and off-white 
road and forest
There are two 
parallel bridges, 
And the color of 
the water is 
dark green
There are clouds 
over many 
farmlands
Fig. 8. Our Text2Earth demonstrates robust capabilities for zero-shot text2image generation across diverse geographical features based on user-free text input.
It can generate a variety of scenes, including diverse geographical features such as mountain ranges, rivers, urban areas, forests, and farmland.
=====PAGE 11=====
11
Resolution: 
128m
Resolution: 
32m
Resolution: 
8m
Resolution: 
2m
Resolution: 
0.5m
10
12
14
16
18
Fig. 9. Generated images with di fferent resolutions solely by specifying the resolution condition, without any descriptive text.. Text2Earth can generate images
reflecting a range of spatial resolutions—from high-resolution close-up views that capture fine details to lower-resolution images that cover larger areas. For
example, in the generated images of mountainous regions, higher-resolution images exhibit detailed terrain features, while lower-resolution images depict
broader landscape coverage, which aligns with real-world spatial resolution characteristics.
Some white 
storage tanks 
are in a piece 
of bareland
Many green 
trees are in a 
piece of forest
Resolution: 2mResolution: 0.5m Resolution: 1m
Fig. 10. Resolution-conditioned image generation with same text prompts.
as a forest or an urban area. This ability highlights the
model’s robustness in handling incomplete or missing input
data, making it adaptable for real-world applications where
input conditions may be partial. This ability benefits from our
proposed dynamic condition adaptation strategy described in
Section IV-B.
In Fig. 10, we tested whether the model could generate
images with di fferent levels of spatial detail given the same
1.5 2.0 4.03.0 6.05.0 7.0
FID Score
Zero-Shot Classification OA (%)
Fig. 11. Evaluation results of our Text2Earth on the RSICD dataset under
different guidance scale factors ω (i.e., 1.5, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 7.0).
textual description but di fferent resolution conditions. For
example, using the prompt “Some white storage tanks are
in a piece of bare land,” we generated images at 0.5m, 1m,
and 2m per pixel resolutions. The resulting images exhibited
variations in the relative size and density of the storage
tanks that corresponded well with the specified resolutions,
effectively mimicking real-world scale variations. Similarly,
=====PAGE 12=====
12
TABLE III
Ev aluation results of ourText2Earth on the RSICD dataset under
different guidance scale factors.
Guidance Scale FID Score↓ Zero-Shot Classification OA ↑
ω = 1.5 28.22 91.72%
ω = 2.0 25.89 90.71%
ω = 3.0 24.49 90.26%
ω = 4.0 24.32 87.92%
ω = 5.0 24.42 84.91%
ω = 6.0 26.17 81.25%
ω = 7.0 28.92 79.30%
for the prompt “Many green trees are in a piece of forest,” the
level of detail in tree structures varied appropriately with the
resolution, demonstrating the model’s capability to produce
resolution-dependent images.
The power of Text2Earth lies in its rich potential knowl-
edge and general image generation capabilities learned from
extensive training data, enabling it to adapt to new datasets
through fine-tuning quickly. To further validate the robustness
of Text2Earth as a foundation model, we fine-tuned it using
the Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) technique [86] on the
widely used remote sensing text2image benchmark dataset
RSICD [17]. facilitates e fficient transfer learning by introduc-
ing a small number of learnable low-rank matrices while keep-
ing the original model parameters fixed. As shown in Table
II, Text2Earth significantly outperforms previous methods on
the RSICD dataset, achieving a remarkable improvement of
+26.23 in FID and +20.95% in Zero-Shot Classification OA.
These improvements demonstrate the robustness of Text2Earth
as a foundation model, which can e ffectively transfer its
learned general knowledge to specific tasks through LoRA
fine-tuning.
Additionally, we present evaluation results of our
Text2Earth on the RSICD dataset under di fferent guidance
scale factors ω during inference, as shown in Table III
and Fig. 11. When ω is set to 3.0, the model achieves a
favourable trade-o ff between FID and Zero-shot Cls-OA,
further highlighting its flexibility in balancing image quality
and semantic alignment.
E. Remote Sensing Image Editing
In addition to text2image generation, Text2Earth exhibits
exceptional versatility in remote sensing image editing, en-
abling modifications to image content such as replacing or
removing geographic features. These capabilities are valuable
across a range of practical applications, as demonstrated in
the examples shown in Fig. 12. For instance, in the cloud
removal example presented in Fig. 12, Text2Earth is given an
input image with cloud-covered regions and a corresponding
mask. Text2Earth can understand the semantic structure of the
image and successfully reconstruct the cloud-covered areas,
ensuring natural scene continuity. This ability to e ffectively
restore occluded regions while maintaining realistic transitions
illustrates Text2Earth’s strength in image editing tasks.
Moreover, Text2Earth can perform targeted scene modifica-
tions based on user-provided text. For example, when given
textual prompts alongside region-specific masks, the model
can execute complex editing tasks, such as: replacing a lake
with grassland, changing the colour of houses from red to
blue, placing an oil tank on a meadow, planting trees near the
beach, constructing a road through a forest, and replacing a
house with a lake.
Importantly, Text2Earth ensures that these modifications are
seamlessly integrated with the surrounding areas, maintaining
continuity and coherence. This makes it an ideal tool for
customized remote sensing image editing, catering to diverse
applications such as urban planning.
F . Unbounded Remote Sensing Scene Construction
One of the most innovative applications of Text2Earth
is its ability to construct unbounded remote sensing scenes
with consistent resolution through iterative outpainting. Using
our Text2Earth, users can seamlessly and infinitely generate
remote sensing images on a canvas, e ffectively overcoming
the fixed-size limitations of traditional generative models.
The unbounded expansion begins with a base image gen-
erated from a user’s textual prompt. Users can iteratively
provide new textual instructions to guide the content of
subsequent image extensions. Text2Earth generates new image
segments at the boundaries, ensuring smooth transitions and
overall coherence across the expanded scene. We provide two
examples in Figure 13. In the first example, we construct a
large-scale coverage of the river area, with 3500×1100 pixels,
where the river is extended unbounded with some vegetation
on both sides. In the second example, we construct a creative
large image with seamless transitions between multiple scenes.
From the farmland area on the left to the forest, then to
the wetland with lakes, then to the desert, followed by some
vegetation, and finally transitioning to a blue ocean.
Text2Earth’s resolution controllability is the key to main-
taining visual coherence across the generated scene during
the outpainting process. Using the same resolution at each
step, our Text2Earth ensures that di fferent regions of the ex-
panded scene maintain consistent spatial detail. Without such
resolution control, varying image resolution across di fferent
areas could result in a disjointed or unnatural appearance,
undermining the overall coherence of the large scene.
By generating unbounded scenes with consistent resolution,
Text2Earth is valuable for applications requiring the visualiza-
tion of extensive geographic areas. It will support the creative
exploration of spatial planning scenarios, pushing beyond the
constraints of traditional workflows.
G. Cross-Modal Image Generation
As a powerful generative foundation model, Text2Earth has
acquired extensive knowledge and universal image generation
capabilities from large-scale remote sensing data. These ca-
pabilities not only enable superior performance in text2image
generation tasks but also allow for e fficient transfer to diverse
cross-modal image generation tasks through techniques like
parameter-efficient fine-tuning. In this section, we explore
=====PAGE 13=====
13
A blue building
 A green lake
White oil tank
 Some trees
 A curved road
Green meadow
A image
Fig. 12. Some examples in remote sensing image editing. Text2Earth exhibits exceptional versatility in remote sensing image editing, enabling modifications
to image content such as removing clouds, and replacing or adding geographic features.
a) 3500×1100
b) 3700×1300
Text
 Text Text
Fig. 13. Unbounded remote sensing scenes through iterative outpainting. Users can seamlessly and infinitely expand remote sensing images on a canvas,
effectively overcoming the fixed-size limitations of traditional generative models.
=====PAGE 14=====
14
a large number 
of lawns are 
planted on both 
sides of the river
many buildings 
and green trees 
are in a dense 
residential area
many tall trees 
were planted 
around the 
house with a 
brown roof
many pieces of 
farmlands are 
orderly together
Text2NIR
it is a polygonal 
deep green pond 
surrounded by 
meadow and 
farmland
some green 
trees and 
buildings are in 
two sides of 
river with a 
bridge over it
there is a 
ploygon port 
with several 
boats near the 
road
there are all 
sorts of color 
car parking lot
Text2SAR
a bridge is on a 
river with some 
buildings in two 
sides of it
many green 
plants are in 
two sides of a 
river
most region the 
sparse 
residential area 
are covered 
with green trees
next to the road 
was a vast 
meadow
Text2PAN
a red building is 
surrounded by 
many green 
trees and some 
meadows
many pieces of 
farmlands are 
together
the sea is 
beating the 
golden sands
a large number 
of white ships 
were parked 
around the 
harbor
Text2RGB
Fig. 14. Text-Driven Multi-Modal Image Generation. Text2Earth can generate high-quality images. For instance, in the generated NIR images, vegetation
areas exhibit high pixel values, aligning with the physical imaging principles of NIR, where green vegetation reflects strongly in the near-infrared spectrum.
Text2Earth’s potential in two key categories of cross-modal
image generation tasks.
1) Text-Driven Multi-Modal Image Generation :
Text2Earth has gained a profound understanding of image
semantics and structural information. It can be used to
generate multi-modal remote sensing images, including RGB,
SAR, NIR, and PAN images. To achieve this, we employed
the LoRA technique [86], which introduces a small number
of learnable low-rank parameters into the model’s attention
layers while keeping the pre-trained parameters frozen. This
approach o ffers substantial computational e fficiency, making
it ideal for resource-constrained environments.
We fine-tuned Text2Earth using LoRA on the RSICD
dataset to facilitate text-driven multi-modal image generation
tasks, such as Text2SAR, Text2NIR, and Text2PAN. The
results are illustrated in Fig. 14. The experiments demonstrate
that Text2Earth can generate multi-modal images with high
quality and semantic consistency. For instance, in the gener-
ated NIR images, green vegetation areas exhibit high pixel
values, aligning with the physical imaging principles of NIR,
where green vegetation reflects strongly in the near-infrared
spectrum. These results underscore Text2Earth’s ability to ef-
fectively transfer its general knowledge to multi-modal remote
sensing image generation tasks.
Table IV shows quantitative evaluation on text-driven multi-
modal image generation. FID scores across different modalities
are not directly comparable because the FID for each modality
is computed using an Inception V3 model pre-trained on
data specific to that modality. Besides, unlike optical images
(RGB, NIR, and PAN), SAR images are captured through
TABLE IV
Text-Driven Multi-Modal Image Generation. LoRA is used to fine -tune our
Text2Earth on the multi-modal image data.
Multi-Modal Generation FID Score↓ Zero-Shot Cls-OA↑
Text2RGB 24.49 90.26%
Text2PAN 4.39 88.46%
Text2SAR 68.83 34.42%
Text2NIR 2.05 82.08%
microwave radar signals, which makes their visual appearance
fundamentally di fferent from optical images. SAR images
often contain speckle noise and lack significant color and
detailed texture information. These factors reduce the amount
of semantic information available for scene classification tasks,
rendering scene classification on SAR images inherently more
challenging than on RGB, NIR, or PAN images. This leads to
a low Zero-Shot Cls-OA score for the Text2SAR generation.
In summary, the primary purpose of Table IV is to provide
baseline benchmark results for future text-driven multi-modal
image generation research rather than to directly compare
performance across modalities.
2) Image-to-Image Translation: In addition to text-driven
multi-modal generation, Text2Earth also exhibits potential
in image-to-image translation tasks, containing cross-modal
translation and image enhancement, such as PAN to RGB
(PAN2RGB), NIR to RGB (NIR2RGB), PAN to NIR
(PAN2NIR), super-resolution, and image dehazing. To imple-
ment these tasks, we froze the parameters of the Text2Earth
=====PAGE 15=====
15
RGB2SARRGB2NIR
SAR2RGB
NIR2RGB
PAN2RGB
NIR2Gray
SAR2NIR
RGB2Gray
SAR2Gray NIR2SAR
Gray2SAR
PAN2NIR
Super-Resolution
 Image Dehazing
Fig. 15. Image-to-image translation, containing cross-modal translation and image enhancement, such as PAN to RGB (PAN2RGB), NIR to RGB (NIR2RGB),
and PAN to SAR (PAN2SAR), low-resolution-to-high-resolution (LR2HR), and image defogging.
model and incorporated a trainable module inspired by Con-
trolNet [62] to encode the conditional input modality. The
target modality is generated while preserving Text2Earth’s
inherent image generation process.
We conducted image-to-image translation experiments using
the RSICD dataset, covering tasks like PAN2RGB, NIR2RGB,
and PAN2SAR. The results, as shown in Fig. 15, demon-
strate that Text2Earth e ffectively translates between di fferent
modalities with high fidelity. For example, in the NIR2RGB
translation, the generated RGB images faithfully represent
vegetation cover areas corresponding to high-intensity regions
in the NIR images, adhering to the physical properties of
NIR imaging. In the super-resolution task, the model exhibits
remarkable detail recovery capabilities, e ffectively performing
large-scale image super-resolution. Additionally, for the image
dehazing, the model can e ffectively remove fog to enhance
image quality. These results further validate Text2Earth’s abil-
ity to capture and transfer semantic features across di fferent
modalities, producing cross-modal images with high quality
and consistency.
In summary, the experimental results above demonstrate
Text2Earth’s outstanding performance in both multi-modal and
cross-modal remote sensing image generation tasks. Its adapt-
ability and extensibility as a generative foundation model make
it a promising tool for a wide range of applications, including
remote sensing image generation, image enhancement, and
multimodal data analysis.
H. More Applications
1) Data Augmentation : We explored using Text2Earth-
generated synthetic images as a data augmentation tool for
remote sensing scene classification. Specifically, we selected
TABLE V
Accuracy of the downstream remote sensing image classification task w/ and
w/o data augmentation.
Training Data VGG-19 ResNet-18 ViT-B-16 Swin-s
w./o. Augment 85.39 87.24 90.94 92.21
w. Augment 91.04 93.86 94.74 96.10
1,027 text-image-category triplets from the RSICD dataset as
training samples and generated over 20,000 synthetic images
based on their textual descriptions. We then trained four widely
used classification models, including VGG-19, ResNet-18,
ViT-B-16, and Swin-S, under two configurations: (i) using only
the original training samples and (ii) using a combination of
the original samples with the synthetic images. As demon-
strated in Table V, all models showed consistent performance
improvements when augmented with the generated images,
thereby confirming that Text2Earth can serve as an e ffective
data augmentation engine.
2) Remote Sensing Vision-Language Contrastive Pre-
training Foundation Model : We further explored the appli-
cation of our Git-10M dataset to pretrain a vision-language
foundation model using the contrastive learning framework.
We named this model Git-RSCLIP. We then conducted zero-
shot classification experiments on multiple publicly available
remote sensing image classification datasets by computing the
similarities of images and textualized scene category prompts
to evaluate the performance of our Git-RSCLIP model. In Ta-
ble VI, the experimental results demonstrate that Git-RSCLIP
significantly outperforms previous remote sensing CLIP mod-
els, such as RemoteCLIP and GeoRSCLIP, confirming the
=====PAGE 16=====
16
TABLE VI
Comparison of zero-Shot classification accuracy between our model and the previous CLIP Models on multiple remote sensing scene classification datasets.
Method OPTIMAL31 RSC11 RSICB128 WHURS19 RSSCN7 CLRS Average
CLIP [20] 60.00 45.29 25.23 77.41 52.25 56.48 52.78
SkyCLIP50 [79] 77.31 60.47 38.60 78.31 55.07 61.03 61.80
RemoteCLIP [87] 81.99 67.05 34.25 92.54 51.71 66.04 65.60
GeoRSCLIP [23] 83.33 67.37 35.48 89.45 62.54 69.67 67.97
Git-RSCLIP (Ours) 95.00 66.96 52.25 93.93 63.50 65.18 72.80
effectiveness of our large-scale dataset. We have made the
Git-RSCLIP model publicly available on our project page:
https://github.com/Chen-Yang-Liu/Text2Earth
VI. L imitation and Discussion for Text2Earth Model
While our Text2Earth model demonstrates robust perfor-
mance in large-scale text-driven remote sensing image genera-
tion, it exhibits certain limitations that merit further discussion.
One notable limitation is its inability to precisely control
the number of objects specified in the textual descriptions,
particularly when a large quantity is involved. For instance, as
illustrated in Fig. 16, when given the prompt “Twelve storage
tanks are near some green trees and buildings,” the model
generated only nine storage tanks. Similarly, the model is
asked to generate seven farmlands but generates eight in the
last example. These results suggest that, although Text2Earth
can capture numerical cues to a certain extent, it struggles with
fine-grained numerical control—a capability that is critical
for accurately reflecting detailed quantitative information in
generated scenes.
This limitation likely arises from the inherent challenges
of aligning textual numerical information with spatial visual
content during the generative process. The current model
primarily focuses on learning high-level semantic relationships
rather than enforcing strict quantitative constraints on object
counts. To address this issue, future research could explore
the integration of specialized numerical reasoning modules or
enhanced conditioning strategies that explicitly account for
numerical details. Additionally, incorporating more training
examples with explicit numerical descriptions may further im-
prove the model’s ability to precisely control object quantity.
In summary, while Text2Earth represents a significant ad-
vancement in remote sensing image generation, addressing its
limitations in object quantity control is an important avenue
for future work. Improving this aspect will not only enhance
the fidelity of generated images but also expand the model’s
applicability in real-world remote sensing applications—such
as urban planning and disaster assessment—where precise
quantitative control is essential.
VII. F uture Work
In this paper, we proposed a global-scale remote sensing
image generation dataset and a generative foundation model
based on di ffusion models, Text2Earth. Through extensive
experiments, we demonstrated the remarkable performance of
Text2Earth across various remote sensing image generation
Some white 
storage tanks 
are in a piece 
of bareland
Many green 
trees are in a 
piece of forest
Resolution: 2mResolution: 0.5m Resolution: 1m
Six tennis 
courts is 
surrounded 
by some 
buildings and 
two roads
Twelve 
storage tanks 
are near some 
green trees 
and buildings
There are two 
green cars in 
the parking 
lot
A white ship 
in the vast sea
many cars are 
parked beside 
the road
(a)
(b)
A baseball 
field and 
eight tennis 
courts are 
next to a 
parking lot
Twelve 
storage tanks 
are near some 
green trees 
and buildings
Seven green 
circular 
farmlands are 
neatly 
arranged on 
the ground
There are six 
airplanes in 
the airport
Fig. 16. Some failure cases about inaccurate control over object quantity.
These results suggest that, although Text2Earth can capture numerical cues
to a certain extent, it struggles with fine-grained numerical control.
tasks, including zero-shot image generation, image editing,
unbounded scene construction, text-driven multimodal image
generation, and cross-modal image generation. These achieve-
ments not only demonstrate the potential of Text2Earth in
generative tasks but also open new avenues for research in
the field of remote sensing image generation. Future research
could focus on the following aspects.
Exploring Broader Applications of Text2Earth. The advan-
tage of Text2Earth lies in the latent knowledge it has learned
from large-scale remote sensing data, especially its deep
understanding of image semantics and structural information.
This capability makes it well-suited not only for image gener-
ation tasks but also for promising applications such as image
enhancement, object detection, and change detection. Future
work could investigate how to adapt and extend Text2Earth
for these domains.
Developing Autoregressive Foundation Models. Autoregres-
sive generative models, such as DALL-E [43] and V AR [49]
models, have shown exceptional scalability and performance
in image generation, particularly under the scaling laws of
large datasets. Future research could explore training autore-
gressive remote sensing generative foundation models with
even greater representational capacity using our proposed Git-
10M dataset. These models might o ffer advantages in terms
of scalability, performance, and the ability to capture complex
spatial-temporal dependencies in remote sensing data.
Building Large and Diverse Multimodal Paired Datasets.
The scale and diversity of datasets are critical drivers of
advancements in generative models. While our current dataset
focuses on the pairing of visible-spectrum images with text,
remote sensing data contains other crucial modalities, such
=====PAGE 17=====
17
as SAR, NIR, and hyperspectral images. These modalities
have unique physical characteristics and diverse application
scenarios. Future e fforts could aim to construct large-scale
remote sensing datasets encompassing a broader range of
paired modalities. Such datasets would not only facilitate
in-depth research into cross-modal generation tasks but also
advance multimodal learning in the remote sensing field.
VIII. C onclusion
Previous remote sensing text2image generation research
faces challenges in terms of dataset size and model ca-
pabilities. To this end, we present Git-10M, a global-scale
remote sensing image-text pair dataset, covering diverse ge-
ographic regions globally and including rich resolution and
geospatial metadata. Based on this dataset, we developed the
Text2Earth foundation model, which overcomes the limitations
of previous methods in terms of global-scale, multi-resolution
controllable, and unbounded text2image generation. The ex-
periments demonstrate that Text2Earth not only excels in
zero-shot text2image generation but also demonstrates robust
generalization and flexibility across multiple tasks such as
image editing, and cross-modal translation. On the previous
benchmark dataset, Text2Earth surpasses the previous models
with a significant improvement of +26.23 FID and +20.95%
Zero-shot Cls-OA metric. As a generative foundation model,
Text2Earth has the potential to advance a broader range of
remote sensing image generation and processing tasks.
References
[1] X. Li, C. Wen, Y . Hu, Z. Yuan, and X. X. Zhu, “Vision-language models
in remote sensing: Current progress and future trends,” IEEE Geoscience
and Remote Sensing Magazine , 2024.
[2] F. Zhan, Y . Yu, R. Wu, J. Zhang, S. Lu, L. Liu, A. Kortylewski,
C. Theobalt, and E. Xing, “Multimodal image synthesis and editing: The
generative ai era,” IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine
Intelligence, vol. 45, no. 12, pp. 15 098–15 119, 2023.
[3] N. Zhang and H. Tang, “Text-to-image synthesis: A decade survey,”
2024. [Online]. Available: https: //arxiv.org/abs/2411.16164
[4] S. Lu, J. Guo, J. R. Zimmer-Dauphinee, J. M. Nieusma, X. Wang,
P. VanValkenburgh, S. A. Wernke, and Y . Huo, “Ai foundation models
in remote sensing: A survey,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.03464 , 2024.
[5] A. Xiao, W. Xuan, J. Wang, J. Huang, D. Tao, S. Lu, and N. Yokoya,
“Foundation models for remote sensing and earth observation: A
survey,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.16602
[6] Y . Zhou, L. Feng, Y . Ke, X. Jiang, J. Yan, X. Yang, and W. Zhang, “To-
wards vision-language geo-foundation model: A survey,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.09385, 2024.
[7] C. Liu, J. Zhang, K. Chen, M. Wang, Z. Zou, and Z. Shi, “Remote
sensing temporal vision-language models: A comprehensive survey,”
2024. [Online]. Available: https: //arxiv.org/abs/2412.02573
[8] Y . Xu, W. Yu, P. Ghamisi, M. Kopp, and S. Hochreiter, “Txt2img-
mhn: Remote sensing image generation from text using modern hopfield
networks,” IEEE Transactions on Image Processing , vol. 32, pp. 5737–
5750, 2023.
[9] Z. Yu, C. Liu, L. Liu, Z. Shi, and Z. Zou, “Metaearth: A generative foun-
dation model for global-scale remote sensing image generation,” IEEE
Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence , vol. 47,
no. 3, pp. 1764–1781, 2025.
[10] M. Espinosa and E. J. Crowley, “Generate your own scotland:
Satellite image generation conditioned on maps,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.16648, 2023.
[11] X. X. Zhu, D. Tuia, L. Mou, G.-S. Xia, L. Zhang, F. Xu, and
F. Fraundorfer, “Deep learning in remote sensing: A comprehensive
review and list of resources,” IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing
Magazine, vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 8–36, 2017.
[12] D. Tuia, K. Schindler, B. Demir, X. X. Zhu, M. Kochupillai, S. D ˇzeroski,
J. N. van Rijn, H. H. Hoos, F. Del Frate, M. Datcu, V . Markl, B. Le Saux,
R. Schneider, and G. Camps-Valls, “Artificial intelligence to advance
earth observation: A review of models, recent trends, and pathways
forward,” IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Magazine , pp. 2–25,
2024.
[13] K. Chen, C. Liu, H. Chen, H. Zhang, W. Li, Z. Zou, and Z. Shi,
“Rsprompter: Learning to prompt for remote sensing instance seg-
mentation based on visual foundation model,” IEEE Transactions on
Geoscience and Remote Sensing , 2024.
[14] C. Liu, R. Zhao, and Z. Shi, “Remote sensing image captioning based
on multi-layer aggregated transformer,” IEEE Geoscience and Remote
Sensing Letters, pp. 1–1, 2022.
[15] C. Liu, K. Chen, H. Zhang, Z. Qi, Z. Zou, and Z. Shi, “Change-agent:
Toward interactive comprehensive remote sensing change interpretation
and analysis,” IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing ,
vol. 62, pp. 1–16, 2024.
[16] B. Qu, X. Li, D. Tao, and X. Lu, “Deep semantic understanding of high
resolution remote sensing image,” in 2016 International conference on
computer, information and telecommunication systems (Cits) . IEEE,
2016, pp. 1–5.
[17] X. Lu, B. Wang, X. Zheng, and X. Li, “Exploring models and data
for remote sensing image caption generation,” IEEE Transactions on
Geoscience and Remote Sensing , vol. 56, no. 4, pp. 2183–2195, 2018.
[18] P. Dhariwal and A. Nichol, “Di ffusion models beat gans on image
synthesis,” Advances in neural information processing systems , vol. 34,
pp. 8780–8794, 2021.
[19] R. Rombach, A. Blattmann, D. Lorenz, P. Esser, and B. Ommer, “High-
resolution image synthesis with latent di ffusion models,” in Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
2022, pp. 10 684–10 695.
[20] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, C. Hallacy, A. Ramesh, G. Goh, S. Agarwal,
G. Sastry, A. Askell, P. Mishkin, J. Clark et al., “Learning transferable
visual models from natural language supervision,” in International
conference on machine learning . PMLR, 2021, pp. 8748–8763.
[21] O. Ronneberger, P. Fischer, and T. Brox, “U-net: Convolutional networks
for biomedical image segmentation,” in International Conference on
Medical image computing and computer-assisted intervention. Springer,
2015, pp. 234–241.
[22] Q. Cheng, H. Huang, Y . Xu, Y . Zhou, H. Li, and Z. Wang, “Nwpu-
captions dataset and mlca-net for remote sensing image captioning,”
IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing , vol. 60, pp. 1–
19, 2022.
[23] Z. Zhang, T. Zhao, Y . Guo, and J. Yin, “Rs5m and georsclip: A large
scale vision-language dataset and a large vision-language model for
remote sensing,” IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing,
2024.
[24] C. Zhang, C. Zhang, M. Zhang, and I. S. Kweon, “Text-to-
image di ffusion models in generative ai: A survey,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.07909, 2023.
[25] C. Liu, R. Zhao, H. Chen, Z. Zou, and Z. Shi, “Remote sensing image
change captioning with dual-branch transformers: A new method and
a large scale dataset,” IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote
Sensing, vol. 60, pp. 1–20, 2022.
[26] C. Liu, R. Zhao, J. Chen, Z. Qi, Z. Zou, and Z. Shi, “A decoupling
paradigm with prompt learning for remote sensing image change cap-
tioning,” IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing , 2023.
[27] C. Liu, J. Yang, Z. Qi, Z. Zou, and Z. Shi, “Progressive scale-aware
network for remote sensing image change captioning,” in IGARSS 2023
- 2023 IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium ,
2023, pp. 6668–6671.
[28] I. Goodfellow, J. Pouget-Abadie, M. Mirza, B. Xu, D. Warde-Farley,
S. Ozair, A. Courville, and Y . Bengio, “Generative adversarial networks,”
Communications of the ACM , vol. 63, no. 11, pp. 139–144, 2020.
[29] M. Tao, H. Tang, F. Wu, X.-Y . Jing, B.-K. Bao, and C. Xu, “Df-gan: A
simple and effective baseline for text-to-image synthesis,” inProceedings
of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
2022, pp. 16 515–16 525.
[30] P. Esser, R. Rombach, and B. Ommer, “Taming transformers for high-
resolution image synthesis,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition , 2021, pp. 12 873–12 883.
[31] Y . Zhou, R. Zhang, C. Chen, C. Li, C. Tensmeyer, T. Yu, J. Gu,
J. Xu, and T. Sun, “Towards language-free training for text-to-image
generation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE /CVF conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition , 2022, pp. 17 907–17 917.
[32] M. Tao, B.-K. Bao, H. Tang, and C. Xu, “Galip: Generative adversarial
clips for text-to-image synthesis,” in Proceedings of the IEEE /CVF
=====PAGE 18=====
18
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , 2023, pp.
14 214–14 223.
[33] S. Ye, H. Wang, M. Tan, and F. Liu, “Recurrent a ffine transformation
for text-to-image synthesis,” IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, vol. 26,
pp. 462–473, 2023.
[34] X. Pan, A. Tewari, T. Leimk ¨uhler, L. Liu, A. Meka, and C. Theobalt,
“Drag your gan: Interactive point-based manipulation on the generative
image manifold,” in ACM SIGGRAPH 2023 Conference Proceedings ,
2023, pp. 1–11.
[35] M. Mirza, “Conditional generative adversarial nets,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1411.1784, 2014.
[36] H. Zhang, T. Xu, H. Li, S. Zhang, X. Wang, X. Huang, and D. N.
Metaxas, “Stackgan: Text to photo-realistic image synthesis with stacked
generative adversarial networks,” in Proceedings of the IEEE interna-
tional conference on computer vision , 2017, pp. 5907–5915.
[37] T. Xu, P. Zhang, Q. Huang, H. Zhang, Z. Gan, X. Huang, and
X. He, “Attngan: Fine-grained text to image generation with attentional
generative adversarial networks,” in Proceedings of the IEEE conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition , 2018, pp. 1316–1324.
[38] T. Qiao, J. Zhang, D. Xu, and D. Tao, “Mirrorgan: Learning text-to-
image generation by redescription,” in Proceedings of the IEEE /CVF
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, 2019, pp. 1505–
1514.
[39] M. Kang, J.-Y . Zhu, R. Zhang, J. Park, E. Shechtman, S. Paris, and
T. Park, “Scaling up gans for text-to-image synthesis,” in Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
2023, pp. 10 124–10 134.
[40] Y . Xu, Y . Zhao, Z. Xiao, and T. Hou, “Ufogen: You forward once large
scale text-to-image generation via di ffusion gans,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ,
2024, pp. 8196–8206.
[41] J. Gui, Z. Sun, Y . Wen, D. Tao, and J. Ye, “A review on generative
adversarial networks: Algorithms, theory, and applications,” IEEE trans-
actions on knowledge and data engineering , vol. 35, no. 4, pp. 3313–
3332, 2021.
[42] A. Jabbar, X. Li, and B. Omar, “A survey on generative adversarial
networks: Variants, applications, and training,” ACM Computing Surveys
(CSUR), vol. 54, no. 8, pp. 1–49, 2021.
[43] A. Ramesh, M. Pavlov, G. Goh, S. Gray, C. V oss, A. Radford, M. Chen,
and I. Sutskever, “Zero-shot text-to-image generation,” in International
conference on machine learning . Pmlr, 2021, pp. 8821–8831.
[44] M. Ding, Z. Yang, W. Hong, W. Zheng, C. Zhou, D. Yin, J. Lin, X. Zou,
Z. Shao, H. Yang et al., “Cogview: Mastering text-to-image generation
via transformers,” Advances in neural information processing systems ,
vol. 34, pp. 19 822–19 835, 2021.
[45] J. Yu, Y . Xu, J. Y . Koh, T. Luong, G. Baid, Z. Wang, V . Va-
sudevan, A. Ku, Y . Yang, B. K. Ayan et al. , “Scaling autoregres-
sive models for content-rich text-to-image generation,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2206.10789, vol. 2, no. 3, p. 5, 2022.
[46] W. He, S. Fu, M. Liu, X. Wang, W. Xiao, F. Shu, Y . Wang, L. Zhang,
Z. Yu, H. Li et al. , “Mars: Mixture of auto-regressive models for
fine-grained text-to-image synthesis,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.07614 ,
2024.
[47] O. Gafni, A. Polyak, O. Ashual, S. Sheynin, D. Parikh, and Y . Taigman,
“Make-a-scene: Scene-based text-to-image generation with human pri-
ors,” in European Conference on Computer Vision. Springer, 2022, pp.
89–106.
[48] C. Liu, K. Chen, B. Chen, H. Zhang, Z. Zou, and Z. Shi, “Rscama:
Remote sensing image change captioning with state space model,” IEEE
Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters , 2024.
[49] K. Tian, Y . Jiang, Z. Yuan, B. Peng, and L. Wang, “Visual autoregressive
modeling: Scalable image generation via next-scale prediction,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2404.02905, 2024.
[50] Y . He, F. Chen, Y . He, S. He, H. Zhou, K. Zhang, and B. Zhuang, “Zipar:
Accelerating autoregressive image generation through spatial locality,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.04062 , 2024.
[51] B. Chen, L. Liu, C. Liu, Z. Zou, and Z. Shi, “Spectral-cascaded
diffusion model for remote sensing image spectral super-resolution,”
IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing , vol. 62, pp.
1–14, 2024.
[52] J. Ho, A. Jain, and P. Abbeel, “Denoising di ffusion probabilistic models,”
Advances in neural information processing systems , vol. 33, pp. 6840–
6851, 2020.
[53] A. Nichol, P. Dhariwal, A. Ramesh, P. Shyam, P. Mishkin, B. McGrew,
I. Sutskever, and M. Chen, “Glide: Towards photorealistic image gen-
eration and editing with text-guided di ffusion models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2112.10741, 2021.
[54] A. Ramesh, P. Dhariwal, A. Nichol, C. Chu, and M. Chen, “Hierarchical
text-conditional image generation with clip latents,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2204.06125, vol. 1, no. 2, p. 3, 2022.
[55] R. Rombach, A. Blattmann, and B. Ommer, “Text-guided synthesis
of artistic images with retrieval-augmented di ffusion models,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2207.13038, 2022.
[56] N. Huang, F. Tang, W. Dong, and C. Xu, “Draw your art dream: Diverse
digital art synthesis with multimodal guided di ffusion,” in Proceedings
of the 30th ACM International Conference on Multimedia , 2022, pp.
1085–1094.
[57] G. Couairon, J. Verbeek, H. Schwenk, and M. Cord, “Di ffedit: Diffusion-
based semantic image editing with mask guidance,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2210.11427, 2022.
[58] B. Kawar, S. Zada, O. Lang, O. Tov, H. Chang, T. Dekel, I. Mosseri, and
M. Irani, “Imagic: Text-based real image editing with di ffusion models,”
in Proceedings of the IEEE /CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, 2023, pp. 6007–6017.
[59] U. Singer, A. Polyak, T. Hayes, X. Yin, J. An, S. Zhang, Q. Hu, H. Yang,
O. Ashual, O. Gafni et al. , “Make-a-video: Text-to-video generation
without text-video data,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.14792 , 2022.
[60] J. Ho, W. Chan, C. Saharia, J. Whang, R. Gao, A. Gritsenko, D. P.
Kingma, B. Poole, M. Norouzi, D. J. Fleet et al. , “Imagen video:
High definition video generation with di ffusion models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2210.02303, 2022.
[61] X. Pan, P. Qin, Y . Li, H. Xue, and W. Chen, “Synthesizing coherent
story with auto-regressive latent di ffusion models,” in Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision ,
2024, pp. 2920–2930.
[62] L. Zhang, A. Rao, and M. Agrawala, “Adding conditional control
to text-to-image di ffusion models,” in Proceedings of the IEEE /CVF
International Conference on Computer Vision , 2023, pp. 3836–3847.
[63] Y . Shi, C. Xue, J. H. Liew, J. Pan, H. Yan, W. Zhang, V . Y . Tan,
and S. Bai, “Dragdi ffusion: Harnessing di ffusion models for interactive
point-based image editing,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , 2024, pp. 8839–8849.
[64] M. B. Bejiga, F. Melgani, and A. Vascotto, “Retro-remote sensing:
Generating images from ancient texts,” IEEE Journal of Selected Topics
in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing , vol. 12, no. 3, pp.
950–960, 2019.
[65] M. B. Bejiga, G. Hoxha, and F. Melgani, “Retro-remote sensing with
doc2vec encoding,” in 2020 Mediterranean and Middle-East Geoscience
and Remote Sensing Symposium (M2GARSS) . IEEE, 2020, pp. 89–92.
[66] ——, “Improving text encoding for retro-remote sensing,” IEEE Geo-
science and Remote Sensing Letters , vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 622–626, 2021.
[67] Q. Le and T. Mikolov, “Distributed representations of sentences and
documents,” in International conference on machine learning . PMLR,
2014, pp. 1188–1196.
[68] R. Zhao and Z. Shi, “Text-to-remote-sensing-image generation with
structured generative adversarial networks,” IEEE Geoscience and Re-
mote Sensing Letters , vol. 19, pp. 1–5, 2021.
[69] C. Chen, H. Ma, G. Yao, N. Lv, H. Yang, C. Li, and S. Wan, “Remote
sensing image augmentation based on text description for waterside
change detection,” Remote Sensing, vol. 13, no. 10, p. 1894, 2021.
[70] H. Ramsauer, B. Sch ¨afl, J. Lehner, P. Seidl, M. Widrich, T. Adler,
L. Gruber, M. Holzleitner, M. Pavlovi ´c, G. K. Sandve et al., “Hopfield
networks is all you need,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2008.02217 , 2020.
[71] A. Van Den Oord, O. Vinyals et al. , “Neural discrete representation
learning,” Advances in neural information processing systems , vol. 30,
2017.
[72] S. Khanna, P. Liu, L. Zhou, C. Meng, R. Rombach, M. Burke, D. B.
Lobell, and S. Ermon, “Di ffusionsat: A generative foundation model for
satellite imagery,” in The Twelfth International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2023.
[73] D. Tang, X. Cao, X. Hou, Z. Jiang, J. Liu, and D. Meng, “Crs-di ff:
Controllable remote sensing image generation with di ffusion model,”
IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing , vol. 62, pp. 1–
14, 2024.
[74] A. Sebaq and M. ElHelw, “Rsdi ff: Remote sensing image generation
from text using di ffusion model,” Neural Computing and Applications ,
pp. 1–9, 2024.
[75] C. Saharia, W. Chan, S. Saxena, L. Li, J. Whang, E. L. Denton,
K. Ghasemipour, R. Gontijo Lopes, B. Karagol Ayan, T. Salimans
et al., “Photorealistic text-to-image diffusion models with deep language
understanding,” Advances in neural information processing systems ,
vol. 35, pp. 36 479–36 494, 2022.
=====PAGE 19=====
19
[76] Y . Long, G.-S. Xia, S. Li, W. Yang, M. Y . Yang, X. X. Zhu, L. Zhang,
and D. Li, “On creating benchmark dataset for aerial image interpre-
tation: Reviews, guidances, and million-aid,” IEEE Journal of selected
topics in applied earth observations and remote sensing , vol. 14, pp.
4205–4230, 2021.
[77] M. Mendieta, B. Han, X. Shi, Y . Zhu, and C. Chen, “Towards geospatial
foundation models via continual pretraining,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision , 2023, pp.
16 806–16 816.
[78] Y . Wang, N. A. A. Braham, Z. Xiong, C. Liu, C. M. Albrecht, and X. X.
Zhu, “Ssl4eo-s12: A large-scale multimodal, multitemporal dataset for
self-supervised learning in earth observation [software and data sets],”
IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Magazine , vol. 11, no. 3, pp.
98–106, 2023.
[79] Z. Wang, R. Prabha, T. Huang, J. Wu, and R. Rajagopal, “Skyscript: A
large and semantically diverse vision-language dataset for remote sens-
ing,” in Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence ,
vol. 38, no. 6, 2024, pp. 5805–5813.
[80] K. Li, G. Wan, G. Cheng, L. Meng, and J. Han, “Object detection in
optical remote sensing images: A survey and a new benchmark,” ISPRS
journal of photogrammetry and remote sensing , vol. 159, pp. 296–307,
2020.
[81] H. Li, X. Dou, C. Tao, Z. Hou, J. Chen, J. Peng, M. Deng, and L. Zhao,
“Rsi-cb: A large scale remote sensing image classification benchmark
via crowdsource data,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.10450 , 2017.
[82] J. Achiam, S. Adler, S. Agarwal, L. Ahmad, I. Akkaya, F. L. Aleman,
D. Almeida, J. Altenschmidt, S. Altman, S. Anadkat et al. , “Gpt-4
technical report,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774 , 2023.
[83] J. Ho and T. Salimans, “Classifier-free di ffusion guidance,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2207.12598, 2022.
[84] C. Szegedy, V . Vanhoucke, S. Ioffe, J. Shlens, and Z. Wojna, “Rethinking
the inception architecture for computer vision,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , 2016, pp.
2818–2826.
[85] S. Ruan, Y . Zhang, K. Zhang, Y . Fan, F. Tang, Q. Liu, and E. Chen,
“Dae-gan: Dynamic aspect-aware gan for text-to-image synthesis,” in
Proceedings of the IEEE /CVF international conference on computer
vision, 2021, pp. 13 960–13 969.
[86] E. J. Hu, Y . Shen, P. Wallis, Z. Allen-Zhu, Y . Li, S. Wang, L. Wang,
and W. Chen, “Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.09685 , 2021.
[87] F. Liu, D. Chen, Z. Guan, X. Zhou, J. Zhu, Q. Ye, L. Fu, and J. Zhou,
“Remoteclip: A vision language foundation model for remote sensing,”
IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing , 2024.